----
Card game distribution

----

Magic started the whole card game dings, and it sold packs mostly. They branched out a little bit, but their model is still predominantly around selling packs with random cards of different rarities. They intentionally keep the value of cards high, so in order to get a real deck in most formats you are looking at 200-1000 dollars, which is absolutely absurd. They are incentivized to keep this going because it makes more money for them. This model is fundamentally at odds with not only making an accessible and enjoyable game for players, but also a *good* game.

With this model you end up making a lot of useless cards, and purposely having to make chase cards that will get people excited to buy packs, this is at odds with balance. Of course, with cards being so expensive, many people will be priced out, it will be to some extent pay to play at an equal playing field, and you will not be able to experience as much variety as having multiple decks will be unaffordable. Also they are greatly conflicted when it comes to balance and bannings, you can't nerf physical cards, so they need to ban them, and then the people who bought them for $15 a pop will be upset that they lost all their value. This creates a weird song and dance where they try to avoid banning new cards and avoid bannings as much as possible, but also try to print as flashy cards as they can to sell more packs.

Fast forward 20 years, fantasy flight games decides I believe starting with netrunner that they want to try something different, they call it a living card game, as opposed to magic being a trading card game. The idea here is that you continually create full expansions and then sell full sets of the cards to players, often on a subscription service. This makes it much more affordable to have all the cards if you want them. Despite this being less predatory and overall cheaper if you are a long term player, these games never really got very far no matter how many they made and how critically acclaimed they were. The only card game in recent memory to reach comparable heights to magic pokemon and yu gi oh is flesh and blood, which came out in 2019, is a tcg, and top decks can cost up to 1k

As far as I can tell this stems from a few factors, most notably that they do a poor job of facilitating local events at game stores, and the buy in can feel steep and actually get steep over time. The second is fairly straightforward, if you continually release new expansions, existing players will be happy because they can just pay their 20$ every few months to get the new cards, but as time goes on the barrier to entry starts to become fairly large, and can actually be worse on the buy in for a new player than a tcg like magic. These 'expandable' card games seem to have made very little attempt to solve this problem.

Also, if you just want to make a new deck you would need cards from multiple expansions, which means you would need to buy those expansions even if you only want some of the cards because there isn't really a secondary market. On top of this, if you can only get your full playset of each card, then if you want to have multiple decks built at a time that use the same cards between them, you would either need to move them or buy alll the cards again. The only real solution to these is ensuring that the secondary market and trade values of the cards stay extremely low, under a dollar, ideally 25-50 cents, valued by the product of the piece of cardboard rather than the rarity.

The problem of facilitating local events is a bit trickier. In order to have events, you need to basically already have players, you need to keep them long term, and you need to get new players in over time. You also need to give 3rd parties an incentive to actually host events, which in a tcg like magic is much greater because there is more money moving around through the secondary market, and products for long time players to buy such as cosmetics, and products for idiots with lots of money to buy, like packs.


You need to be able to enter in with as little investment as possible, you need to be able to get individual or extra copies of cards for fairly cheap, and the cost to acquire large amounts or all game pieces that you want can’t end up being absurdly expensive.

Along with this, overall game pieces must be cheap, there probably needs to be some amount of secondary market, and you probably need some amount of packs.

Overall these requirements lead to a really tricky cost optimization problem trying to find the way to get the most cards distributed to the most players as cheaply and in the most efficient groupings as possible, where the solution is probably a selection of key products that do not overlap significantly to avoid confusion in what to buy.

If I had to guess right now what that may consist of I would say (this is an older concept, a newer one is below):
- full expansions sold with all the cards. If you’re a hard core player you can just get all the damn cards if you want. This can double as a sort of board game set with a number of pre constructed decks. It can also be available as a subscription service because those make money.
- top tier decks sold in near optimal configurations, to make it easy to point new players to the thing they need to get to participate and compete on an equal level. (In tcgs like magic they are greatly incentivized to NEVER and they do never just sell you the cards you want, wizards of the coast will never just sell you a full optimized deck.)
- packs with cosmetics, maybe all cards are the same rarity but the different cosmetics are rarer than others, so you only get 5 foils and one super fancy thing per pack for example. This would have to combine with players having extra cards from the other things to create enough supply of singles. The overall goal here would be to give the collector and high value to cards that are just cosmetics of normal cards, so that actual game pieces you need to play the game can be available at as low a cost as possible. I don't know if this would actually work, it might not, it's possible nobody would want to buy this. edit: it would likely only work for something like pokemon that has collectibility outside of gameplay.
- The ultimate silver bullet for solving everything would be to just sell single cards print to order for 50 cents a card. This would be literally printing money, and put a cap the card prices. This would be absolutely ideal if the logistics of it actually work, you would need enough orders coming through to be able to have the economies of scale for printing individual cards to order (perhaps you print them once a week all at once after collecting the week's orders?), and hopefully it wouldn't take too long to get to the consumer. This would work a lot better if the game is already successful and has enough players to support having some amount of stock for cards, although it would still be tricky as they would not all be in the same amount of demand.


Overall this plan would be giving up the potential for the kind of insane money that games like magic and pokemon make, but it's prioritizing growth and quality of the game, which is imo more important, and also is arguably more important from a business perspective at this point anyway, since you need to be able to compete with already existing games and being 100x less expensive could be a great way to do that.

---
A newer revision/conversation/monologue I had that takes into account how collectability and tradability may actually be qualities that can be salvaged: 

"Maybe everyone having access to all cards isn't really needed because most players don't actually care about most cards as they stick to only the few decks they like, and even if you could just magically give everyone all the cards, maybe it would make it easier to attract new players but you would lose the collecting aspect which may be important to many, so the real question is how do you make slowly collecting cards over time enjoyable, engaging, and inexpensive? How do you make collecting relevant to the player as a player, rather than asking how you can divorce collectibility from gameplay entirely? In magic you can get packs or singles with store credit from placing in events, or at least you get part of your entry fee back through it. If you are forced to part with your 6$ anyway, and you get 4$ back in cards, or more if you do well, then that theoretically should be a very very good system. However, the reality is that packs don't do jack shit to let you collect more cards as a player to help you make more decks without spending significantly more money, and singles are too expensive to make a dent through the means of only your 4-12$ fnm weekly spending to enter events. So then what product can replace magic's packs that would do a better job of letting you collect cards as a player of the game?
Maybe just not making filler cards, so every card in every pack is way more likely to be useful, going with my idea from before to have every card be the same rarity but have the uncommons and rares be represented by different cosmetics, and then those 15 random cards will actually be useful for you, with just as much value as the store credit. Ideally singles would be cheap enough that you can just trade your duplicates or fancy cards for other ones you need with the store. Maybe that is enough, maybe anyone who needs more than that would just buy all the cards as a full set anyway. 
Although, from what I could gather printing and distributing randomized packs and stuff is kind of worse for publishers up front at least, and game stores dont want to buy into new card games because they always end up dying. I guess the former doesnt really matter that much because if you have the resources to publish a game you can probably do it, although both of these could maybe be solved with a kind of multi step process:
- step 1: the game is published with set 1 as a complete box set with precons designed to matchup well against each other. You can also sell each of these pre cons individually, since there likely isnt a defined meta yet to just make winning decks. You would need to handle duplicate somehow through this, within the big box you would probably not want any decks to share cards beyond 3x total so that you dont need more than the full number, but within the individually bought decks you would probably be fine with that to make them closer to what you could make as an optimal deck if you had all the cards. Basically this way if you get one of each of the individual precons over time you'll end up with all the cards anyway. At step 1, the goal is to build momentum within local game stores and have events running consistently with players.
- step 2: After some time has gone by, and you already have a playerbase / storebase, and maybe a few sets behind you, the number of cards in the game is increasing, and you need to manage that somehow. It's time to implement more collectability. Because it is no longer being expected for every player to have all the cards you can make packs (as described above, not like magic). These packs could be for each existing set, or maybe for the full collection of all the past sets, but either way the new sets that come out will have their own packs for just them. This will allow, as described above, for players to collect packs as they participate in fnm, and ideally push down the value of singles, and solve the duplicate issue I have talked about in the past (where if you only sell full sets then people have problems with keeping multiple active decks due to not having duplicates of the cards they need.) fnm promos are also a good idea. While packs are now being introduced, sets can still be bought in full as well as a new cube with each set release. Around this time you will also probably want to start selling tournament winning decks, maybe you've hard your first big yearly event and you can sell the winning decks because that's pretty wicked. This all should ensure that the die hard players will continue to be able to have all the cards if they want, and allow players who don't have all the cards to slowly accumulate them with minimal investment. Both of these should be more doable with a lower total card count and more consistent power level of cards.
- step 2.5: selling singles print to order, to ensure no cards become too expensive and getting rid of the issue of the most popular cards being 10x more expensive than most others. It's also just printing money which is pretty wicked

There are slightly different directions to go than this as well especially for step 2.
We are essentially presented with the option of whether to lean into getting players to trade cards 1 for 1 by garaunteeing they are the same value, or to create a system where packs do not have duplicates. There are plenty of ways to go for implimenting this, ranging from numbered packs so that you know if you get one of each you will eventially have all the cards but the cards in each are not really as public or planned, to creating more themed boosters. An advantage of this approach is that if you have a full set you are going to sell you can just stuff one of each in a box and call it a day, allowing for fewer different ways of packaging and preparing cards for distribution.
